The President:
Good morning, everybody.
Earlier this week, the
Republican House
of Representatives chose to shut
down a government they don't
like over a health care
law they don't like.
And I've talked a lot about the
real-world consequences of this
shutdown in recent days - the
services disrupted; the benefits
delayed; the public servants
kicked off the job without pay.
But today, I want to let the
Americans dealing with those
real-world consequences
have their say.
And these are just a few of the
many heartbreaking letters
I've gotten from them in the
past couple weeks -
including more than 30,000 over
the past few days.
Kelly Mumper lives
in rural Alabama.
She works in early education,
and has three kids of her
own in the Marines.
Here's what she wrote
to me on Wednesday.
"Our Head Start agency was
forced to stop providing
services on October 1st for over
770 children,
and 175 staff were furloughed.
I am extremely concerned for
the welfare of these children.
There are parents who work
and who attend school.
Where are they leaving their
children...is it a safe
environment...are they getting
the food that they receive
at their Head Start program?"
On the day Julia Pruden's
application to buy a home for
her and her special needs
children was approved by the
USDA's rural development direct
loan program, she wrote
me from Minot, North Dakota.
"We put in an offer to purchase
a home this weekend, and it was
accepted...if funding does not
go through, our chances of the
American Dream are down the
drain...We have worked really
hard to get our credit to
be acceptable to purchase
a home...if it weren't for the
direct lending program provided
by the USDA, we would not
qualify to buy
the home we found."
These are just two of the many
letters I've received from
people who work hard; try to
make ends meet;
try to do right by their families.
They're military or military
spouses who've seen commissaries
closed on their bases.
They're veterans worried the
services they've
earned won't be there.
They're business owners who've
seen their contracts with
the government put on hold,
worried they'll have
to let people go.
I want them to know, I read
the stories you share with me.
These are our fellow Americans.
These are the people who
sent us here to serve.
And I know that Republicans in
the House of Representatives are
hearing the same
kinds of stories, too.
As I made clear to them this
week, there's only one way out
of this reckless and damaging
shutdown: pass a budget that
funds our government, with
no partisan strings attached.
The Senate has
already done this.
And there are enough Republican
and Democratic votes in the
House of Representatives willing
to do the same,
and end this shutdown immediately.
Unfortunately the far right of
the Republican Party won't let
Speaker Boehner give
that bill a yes-or-no vote.
Take that vote.
Stop this farce.
End this shutdown now.
The American people don't get
to demand ransom in exchange
for doing their job.
Neither does Congress.
They don't get to hold our
democracy or our economy hostage
over a settled law.
They don't get to kick a child
out of Head Start if they don't
agree to take her parents'
health insurance away.
That's not how our democracy
is supposed to work.
That's why I won't pay a ransom
in exchange
for reopening the government.
And I certainly won't pay a
ransom in exchange
for raising the debt ceiling.
For as reckless as a government
shutdown is, an economic
shutdown that comes with default,
with America not paying
its bills, would be dramatically worse.
I'll always work with anyone
of either party on ways to grow
this economy, create new jobs,
and get our fiscal house
in order for the long haul.
But not under the shadow of
these threats to our economy.
So my message is simple.
Pass a budget.
End this government shutdown.
Pay our bills.
Prevent an economic shutdown.
These Americans and millions of
others are counting on Congress
to do the right thing.
And I will do everything I
can to make sure they do.
Thanks.